# So what is Assembly Language?
#### [PREVIOUS: SECTION 1 Welcome and Overview](/docs/1_Introduction.md)
#### [NEXT: SECTION 1.2 The LC-3 Computer: A Brief Overview](/docs/1.2_LC-3-Computer-Brief-Overview.md)

## All code is Assembly Language in the end
At its core Assembly language is a type of computer programming language that is one step above binary (the zeros and ones you have heard about). All code, no matter the language at some point gets turned into Assembly code. This is done automatically for us in all other languages so that we don't ever have to think about it. At all. 

You may never program in Assembly again, but understanding what Assembly code is and that all languages eventually get converted into this will give you a much deeper understanding of how a computer ACTUALLY works. Getting rid of all the "witchcraft" that makes no sense. 

Assembly code gets turned into binary, and binary is what the computer reads and executes when it is running a program. Binary is super annoying to work with, so we created Assembly code to make it much easier to understand.

## Why It's Different from Python or Java
If you've ever seen or written code in languages like Python or Java, you know it's pretty straightforward to read and write. These are "high-level "languages, designed to be as close to human language as possible. 

Assembly language, on the other hand is the "lowest-level" language. It's much more detailed and specific about what you're telling the computer to do, making it definately harder to work with than Python or Java.

Which is exactly why "high-level" languages exist. It makes things much more easy, and you don't need to worry about the actually Assembly code that will run.

## Why It's Worth Learning
In assembly language, you get to control the computer at a much finer level. On the upside, this means you have full control over the computer and can make it do anything you want! On the downside, it means that you have FULL CONTROL over the computer and you can accidently make it do things you don't want. (see what I did there?)

You might be wondering, "Why bother with assembly language if it's more complex?" Well, learning assembly language gives you a deeper understanding of how computers work. It's like knowing all of the parts of an engine in a car and how they co-operate together, instead of just driving the car. You'll understand what's actually happening under the hood of your computer programs, which is a really powerful skill to have.

# [NEXT: SECTION 1.2 The LC-3 Computer: A Brief Overview](/docs/1.2_LC-3-Computer-Brief-Overview.md)