# Creating and Running Your First Program in LC3Tools
#### [PREVIOUS: SECTION 2 Setting up your Computer](/docs/2_Setting-up-your-Computer.md)
#### [NEXT: SECTION 3 ABC](/docs/3_abc.md)
Now that you're familiar with the LC3Tools interface, it's time to get your hands dirty with a tiny bit of Assembly coding. Let's create and run your very first LC-3 assembly program. Don't worry, we'll keep it simple!

## Writing Your First Program
- **Opening the Code Editor:** In LC3Tools, navigate to the code editor. It's where you'll type in your assembly code.

We'll start with a simple program. For now, we will just set a register value so that you can see how the memory updates when you run your code. Think of it as a way of saying "Hello, World!" for now until we go over Input/Output in a later section.

```assembly
; My First LC-3 Program
.ORIG x3000  ; start of the program (ignore this for now)

AND R2, R2, #0  ; clear register R2 (set to 0)
ADD R2, R2, #1  ; Add 1 to register R2 (R2 is now 1)
ADD R2, R2, #1  ; Add 1 to register R2 (R2 is now 2)
ADD R2, R2, #1  ; Add 1 to register R2 (R2 is now 3)
HALT            ; stop the program running

.END            ; mark the end of the file (ignore this for now)
```
- **Type the Above Code:** Enter the above code into the code editor. This program essentially clears a register and then sets it to 1, a simple operation to start with.

## Running Your Program
- **Compile the Code:** Click on the "Wrench" icon or select "Build" from the menu to compile your program. 
- **Switch to Simulator View:** Click on the "Simulator" button in the top right corner to switch to the simulator view.
- **Load and Run:** Click the "Play" icon to run your program. If everything goes well, your program will run!
- **Step Through Code:** An alternate way to run your code is to press the "Step Over" button to go through each line one by one. Try it out!

## Observing the Changes
- **Watch the Registers:** As your program runs, keep an eye on the registers in the simulator. You should see R2 change from 0 to 1 to 2 to 3. This indicates that your program has successfully run. 
- **Watch while Stepping Through Code:** Experment around with stepping through the code instead of just pressing the "Play" icon to watch as the registers update and show you their latest value on each

## Reset and Rerun
- **Resetting the Simulator:** To run your program again, click the "Reinitialize Machine" button, followed by the "Reload" icon, and then run your program. This is good practice to ensure you're starting fresh each time.

## Congratulations!
Congratulations! You've just written and run your first LC-3 assembly program using LC3Tools. This is a big step in your journey into assembly language programming. Feel free to play around with the code, change values, and see how it affects the register. Experimentation is a great way to learn!

# [NEXT: SECTION 3 ABC](/docs/3_abc.md)
