# Lesson Structure
To help easily teach the instructions in LC-3 and help build your knowledge over time, I have built a few our lesson that are structured to make the learning process both effective and engaging. 

## Lessons Build on Each other
- **One Step at a Time:** Each lesson will introduce one or two new instructions. This approach ensures that you're not overwhelmed and have time to practice and absorb each concept thoroughly.
- **Hands-On Experience:** Every instruction will be accompanied by examples and exercises. These practical components are designed to help you apply what you've learned and see how the instructions work in actual programs.

## Lesson Outline
- **Program Instructions:** We'll start with a few instructions that are used to start/end the program (`.ORIG`, `HALT`, `.END`)


- **Arthmatic Instructions:** We'll start with the most basic instructions like `ADD` and `AND`. You'll learn how to perform simple arithmetic and logical operations.


- **Load/Save Instructions:** Next, you'll learn about instructions for loading and storing data, such as `LD` and `ST`.


- **Input/Output:** We'll explore how to interact with the user by printing data to the console, and inputting data from the user! Covers the instructions `PUTS` and `GETC`.


- **Calling Functions/Jumping around Code:** Understanding how to use functions of your program is crucial. We'll cover branching and jumping instructions like `BR`, `JMP`, and what LABELS are in Assembly. You will finally be able to write programs with a function in them!


- **(Advanced) Referencing Variables in Memory:** You will learn how to referencing variables using their "memory locations".


- **(Advanced) Subroutines:** As you gain confidence, we'll delve into more advanced topics like Subroutines (advanced functions). We will go over the instructions `JSR` and `RET`, and how to use Subroutines in a similar way to functions in a high level language.


- **(Advanced) Nested Subroutine Calls:** Want to call a subroutine within a subroutine? There are some common pitfalls/issues people run into. We will explain why the issue occurs, and how to properly solve it. This will cover managing the `RET` pointer (stored in R7) and using a "Stack" (managed by R6) to allow nested subroutine calls without issue!


- **(Advanced) Referencing Far Away Variables:** As you get more skilled with LC-3 you may find that your program is getting long, and you are running into issues with your variables being too far away from the subroutine/code you use them in. There is a simple way to solve this to allow programs of any size, and we will walk you through it!

## Complementing Theory with Practice
- **Real-World Applications:** To solidify your learning, we'll often relate instructions to real-world scenarios, helping you understand their practical applications.
- **Debugging and Troubleshooting:** As part of the lessons, we'll also touch on common issues people run into and how to debug your program to see where the issue is occuring.

## Practice Ideas
- **Apply What You've Learned:** At the end of each lesson, there will be some hopefully interesting suggestions of programs you could build to test out your knowledge and make sure you understand the concepts.

## Conclusion
By slowly building on your knowledge over time, you'll not only learn about individual instructions but also how to use them effectively in creating functioning LC-3 assembly programs. Remember, practice is key, so don’t hesitate to experiment with the code and explore beyond the exercises provided. The best way to learn is to find a program you are interested in writing and use that to push the limits of your knowledge slowly further. 

Let's get started!